Docs:  Extend Brevo documentation by sending contacts without DOI feature (#3777)
vivid-planet/comet: docs/docs/3-features-modules/9-brevo-module/features/contacts-without-doi.md

---
title: Add contacts without sending double opt-in
---

Contacts added to a newsletter are legally obliged to give their consent (usually via double opt-in). There may be scenarios, in which a contact already gave their permission. In this case, this feature allows adding or importing contacts without sending a double opt-in message.

:::caution

> Make sure that your project uses BREVO v3.1.0 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that your project uses Brevo Module v3.1.0 or later.
```

:::

## Allow adding contacts without sending a double opt-in mail

> 1. Set a new environment variable `ALLOW_ADDING_CONTACTS_WITHOUT_DOI` to true:

Reviewer: Does this change for different environments? Can't we hard code this to true/false in the module?

Author: @raphaelblum what do you think?

At the moment, we don't have a case where this varies across different environments. But there might be a future project involving scopes, that require this feature and others not. In the end, the question is whether we want to add this feature only for scopes that explicitly need it, as it must be ensured that recipients consent to receiving emails, or if we trust admins to only use it, when needed.

Author: Ah sorry, of course, it's also possible to set it in the app module without setting an environment variable. I'll adapt the guide accordingly.

Author: I removed the env variable in the documentation: [39e9e6c](https://github.com/vivid-planet/comet/pull/3777/commits/39e9e6c4f2ef65590a73fe514e2f2066d7f8930c)

                  //...
+               BlacklistedContacts
               }
            //...
          });
```

2. Add `emailHashKey` to your environment variables:

```diff
+  @IsString()
+  @Length(64)
+  EMAIL_HASH_KEY: string;
```

3. Also add it to the `config.ts` and your `AppModule`:

```diff
    //...
    ecgRtrList: {
        apiKey: envVars.ECG_RTR_LIST_API_KEY,
    },
    contactsWithoutDoi: {
      allowAddingContactsWithoutDoi: config.contactsWithoutDoi.allowAddingContactsWithoutDoi,
+     emailHashKey: config.contactsWithoutDoi.emailHashKey,
    },
    sitePreviewSecret: envVars.SITE_PREVIEW_SECRET,
```

```diff
         BrevoModule.register({
           brevo: {
                 //...
               BlacklistedContacts
              }
            contactsWithoutDoi: {
              allowAddingContactsWithoutDoi: config.contactsWithoutDoi.allowAddingContactsWithoutDoi,
+             emailHashKey: config.contactsWithoutDoi.emailHashKey,
                    },
           //...
         });

```

## Add action logging for adding contacts without sending a double opt-in

When a user adds a contact and skips sending the double opt-in email, the action is logged.

> 1. Use `createBrevoEmailImportLogEntity` for creating `brevo-email-import-log` entity. Pass `Scope` and add it to the `AppModule`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use `createBrevoEmailImportLogEntity` for creating `BrevoEmailImportLog` entity. Pass `Scope` and add it to the `AppModule`:
```
